\subsection*{Significance of the study}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Significance of the Study}
The significance of this study can contribute to build upon the existing
knowledge base about diabetes by studying the correlation between sleep
disturbances and blood sugar levels. Understanding the relationship between the
two variables can provide important clues for improving blood sugar control for
diabetes (DM) patients. The researchers will be able to determine whether sleep
disturbance is a major cause of diabetes for non-diabetic people which could
lead to having further research with regards of this topic. Furthermore,
preventing diabetes to non-diabetic people by improving the sleep quality is
another important of conducting this study. The following are the beneficiaries
of this study:

\textbf{Diabetes patients.} This study will benefit Type-1 and Type-2 diabetes
patients by providing insights on the relationship between sleep quality and
blood sugar level. Improving the sleep quality may further improve and reduce
the blood sugar level of said patients.

\textbf{Healthcare professionals and providers.} By understanding the
significance of having a good sleep quality, healthcare professionals and
providers can educate diabetes patients about the importance of sleep and its
impact on blood sugar level. Better care and support with consideration to the
potential effects of sleep quality can be provided to patients, leading to
better management of diabetes.

\textbf{The Field of Medicine.} The study will provide a significant knowledge
about the major risk factors of diabetes. This can potentially provide new
insights on how to prevent diabetes for non-diabetic people, which will
significantly reduce the rate of growth of diabetes.

\textbf{General Public.} Educating the general public about the importance of
sleep quality can help prevent diabetes for non-diabetic people. This knowledge
has the potential to improve overall public health and reduce the burden of
diabetes on individuals and healthcare systems. Furthermore, the findings of
this study can also inform the development and implementation of interventions
aimed at improving sleep quality in diabetic patients.

\textbf{Future Researchers.} Recommendations from this study can provide new
innovation for future research regarding this topic. New studies can potentially
explore and develop interventions utilizing this knowledge for diabetes
patients.
